Move AI up one level in Develop (#29706)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/stable/develop/AI/_index.md

description: How to Develop Applications with AI and YugabyteDB
image:
headcontent: Add a scalable and highly-available database to your AI projects
type: indexpage
showRightNav: true
cascade:
  unversioned: true
---

> YugabyteDB offers the familiarity and extensibility of PostgreSQL, while also delivering scale and resilience. Thanks to the [pgvector](../../additional-features/pg-extensions/extension-pgvector/) PostgreSQL extension, it also functions as a highly performant vector database, with enterprise scale and resilience. This means you can use YugabyteDB to support Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) workloads, providing AI agents with knowledge of your unstructured data, while its scalability allows it to store and search billions of vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
YugabyteDB offers the familiarity and extensibility of PostgreSQL, while also delivering scale and resilience. 
Its distributed nature combines enterprise-grade vector search with ACID transactions. YugabyteDB enables you to store embeddings alongside transactional data, perform vector similarity searches with full SQL capabilities, and scale to billions of vectors across multiple regions—all with PostgreSQL compatibility and zero-downtime operations. Thanks to the [pgvector](../../additional-features/pg-extensions/extension-pgvector/) PostgreSQL extension, it also functions as a highly performant vector database, with enterprise scale and resilience. This means you can use YugabyteDB to support Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) workloads, providing AI agents with knowledge of your unstructured data, while its scalability allows it to store and search billions of vectors.
```

Explore the following examples to get started building scalable gen AI applications that scale and never fail.

## Retrieval-augmented generation

> RAG combines large language models (LLM) with external knowledge sources to produce more accurate and context-aware responses. YugabyteDB serves as the retrieval layer, storing vector representations of your data, and enabling efficient similarity searches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RAG combines large language models (LLM) with external knowledge sources to produce more accurate and context-aware responses. YugabyteDB serves as the retrieval layer for your RAG applications, combining vector similarity search with transactional data access. Unlike standalone vector databases, YugabyteDB enables you to join embeddings with user data, metadata, and business logic in a single query, delivering faster and more contextually rich responses.
```
